README.md, before:

Spring Maven Java 1.8
=======================

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/cristianprofile/spring-boot-mvc-complete-example/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/cristianprofile/spring-boot-mvc-complete-example)  [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cristianprofile/spring-boot-mvc-complete-example.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/cristianprofile/spring-boot-mvc-complete-example)
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/cristianprofile/spring-boot-mvc-complete-example?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)


UPDATED APP WITH GRADLE SUPPORT

To be able to build the application run "gradle build" command.

NEW SPRING BOOT MVC APP CREATED, ENJOY IT (web module, rest module and spring data rest example)

**Important!!!!! First of all you have to install with "mvn install" modules "mylab-parent-pom" and after "mvn install" of module "mylab-core".**

run spring-boot-mvc-web-example module with maven  "mvn spring-boot:run" (if you want to use Gradle run "gradle bootRun" into spring-boot-mvc-web-example ) and access to http://localhost:9090/pizza
and user: "admin@ole.com" and password "admin@ole.com".You can create other users with ROLE_USER at add user left menu
option.

- Spring boot MVC with Spring Security Access
- I18n
- Responsive Bootstrap css witn Tiles 3
- Password encoding with Bcrypt  [BCRYPT password encoding](http://www.baeldung.com/spring-security-registration-password-encoding-bcrypt "BCRYPT password encoding") 
- Unit Testing and Integration Testing with spring-boot-starter-test dependency (all dependecies are transitive like mockito junit etc...)


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you want to access to Rest Service with Spring boot module "spring-boot-mvc" first run mvn spring-boot:run (if you want to use Gradle run "java jar build/libs/spring-boot-mvc-rest-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar"
 into spring-boot-mvc-rest folder ):

- http://localhost:9090/base (get list of all bases)
- http://localhost:9090/base/1 (get base info with id=1)
- http://localhost:9090/base/1 (delete base info with id=1)
- http://localhost:9090/base (post create new base sending json info. Example "name":"rolling pizza" )
- http://localhost:9090/base (update update existing base sending json info. Example {"name":"rolling pizza 2","id":1})

When you run Spring boot app Spring actuator add features to monitore your services:

- (get) http://localhost:9091/manage/metrics (Spring Boot Actuator includes a metrics service with 
“gauge” and “counter” support. A “gauge” records a single value; and a “counter” records a delta 
(an increment or decrement). Metrics for all HTTP requests are automatically 
recorded, so if you hit the metrics endpoint should see a sensible response.)
- (get) http://localhost:9091/manage/health (you can check if your app is available)
- (get) http://localhost:9091/manage/mappings (list of your app HTTP endpoints)
- (post) http://localhost:9091/manage/shutdown (list of your app HTTP endpoints)

![Spring Actuator values](/images/Spring_Actuator_EndPoints.png?raw=true "Spring Actuator values")


More info about Spring Actuator at: [Spring Actuator](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/tree/master/spring-boot-actuator "Spring Actuator")

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Spring Data REST builds on top of Spring Data repositories, analyzes your application’s domain model and exposes hypermedia-driven HTTP resources for aggregates contained in the model.

If you want to access to Rest Service with Spring boot module "spring-boot-data-rest" first run mvn spring-boot:run (if you want to use Gradle run "java jar build/libs/spring-boot-data-rest-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar "
 into spring-boot-data-rest):

- http://localhost:9090/api/bases to get all bases (get list of all bases)
- http://localhost:9090/api/bases (post create new base sending json info. Example "name":"rolling pizza" )
- http://localhost:9090/api/browser/index.html#/api to access to your rest api HAL Browser to be served up when you visit your application’s root URI in a browser. 

![Spring Actuator values](/images/SpringDataRestHalBrowser.png?raw=true "Spring Actuator values")

More info about Spring Data Rest at: [Spring Data Rest](http://projects.spring.io/spring-data-rest/ "Spring Data Rest") 











----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Jenkins 2 automatic multibranch plugin mode with JenkinsFile file in main directory. More interesting information about new Jenkins 2 Pipeline script configuration at:

-  [DZONE refcard jenkins pipeline](https://dzone.com/refcardz/continuous-delivery-with-jenkins-workflow "DZONE refcard jenkins pipeline")
-  [Github examples](https://github.com/jenkinsci/pipeline-examples "Github examples")  

Docker integration in feature  branch called: docker_container_jenkins

-  [Docker container feature branch](https://github.com/cristianprofile/spring-boot-mvc-complete-example/blob/feature/docker_container_jenkins/Jenkinsfile "Run IC in a Docker container")  

![Pipeline plugin](/images/git-flow.png?raw=true "Pipeline plugin")

Commit message:

Updated Gradle config with war support

README.md, after:

## Spring Boot Maven Java 1.8  (Spring MVC jsp and tiles, Spring Data Rest, Jenkins 2 ready to use with full support to Maven and Gradle)

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/cristianprofile/spring-boot-mvc-complete-example/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/cristianprofile/spring-boot-mvc-complete-example)  [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cristianprofile/spring-boot-mvc-complete-example.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/cristianprofile/spring-boot-mvc-complete-example)
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/cristianprofile/spring-boot-mvc-complete-example?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)


```
mvn clean install (install jar to your local m2 )
mvn spring-boot:run (run web app modules)
gradle buid (build modules)
gradle bootRun (run web app modules)
```


**Important!!!!! First of all you have to install with "mvn install" modules "mylab-parent-pom" and after "mvn install" of module "mylab-core".**


## Spring Boot mvc web with tiles app

run spring-boot-mvc-web-example module with maven  "mvn spring-boot:run" (if you want to use Gradle run "gradle bootRun" into spring-boot-mvc-web-example ) and access to http://localhost:9090/pizza
and user: "admin@ole.com" and password "admin@ole.com".You can create other users with ROLE_USER at add user left menu
option.

- Spring boot MVC with Spring Security Access
- I18n
- Responsive Bootstrap css witn Tiles 3
- Password encoding with Bcrypt  [BCRYPT password encoding](http://www.baeldung.com/spring-security-registration-password-encoding-bcrypt "BCRYPT password encoding") 
- Unit Testing and Integration Testing with spring-boot-starter-test dependency (all dependecies are transitive like mockito junit etc...)


## Rest service layer with Spring Boot Mvc

If you want to access to Rest Service with Spring boot module "spring-boot-mvc" first run mvn spring-boot:run (if you want to use Gradle run "gradle bootRun"
 into spring-boot-mvc-rest folder ):

```
- http://localhost:9090/base (get list of all bases)
- http://localhost:9090/base/1 (get base info with id=1)
- http://localhost:9090/base/1 (delete base info with id=1)
- http://localhost:9090/base (post create new base sending json info. Example "name":"rolling pizza" )
- http://localhost:9090/base (update update existing base sending json info. Example {"name":"rolling pizza 2","id":1})
```

When you run Spring boot app Spring actuator add features to monitore your services:

```
- (get) http://localhost:9091/manage/metrics (Spring Boot Actuator includes a metrics service with 
“gauge” and “counter” support. A “gauge” records a single value; and a “counter” records a delta 
(an increment or decrement). Metrics for all HTTP requests are automatically 
recorded, so if you hit the metrics endpoint should see a sensible response.)
- (get) http://localhost:9091/manage/health (you can check if your app is available)
- (get) http://localhost:9091/manage/mappings (list of your app HTTP endpoints)
- (post) http://localhost:9091/manage/shutdown (list of your app HTTP endpoints)
```

![Spring Actuator values](/images/Spring_Actuator_EndPoints.png?raw=true "Spring Actuator values")


More info about Spring Actuator at: [Spring Actuator](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/tree/master/spring-boot-actuator "Spring Actuator")


##  Rest service layer with Spring Data Rest

Spring Data REST builds on top of Spring Data repositories, analyzes your application’s domain model and exposes hypermedia-driven HTTP resources for aggregates contained in the model.

If you want to access to Rest Service with Spring boot module "spring-boot-data-rest" first run mvn spring-boot:run (if you want to use Gradle run "gradle bootRun"
 into spring-boot-data-rest):

```
- http://localhost:9090/api/bases to get all bases (get list of all bases)
- http://localhost:9090/api/bases (post create new base sending json info. Example "name":"rolling pizza" )
- http://localhost:9090/api/browser/index.html#/api to access to your rest api HAL Browser to be served up when you visit your application’s root URI in a browser. 
```

![Spring Actuator values](/images/SpringDataRestHalBrowser.png?raw=true "Spring Actuator values")


More info about Spring Data Rest at: [Spring Data Rest](http://projects.spring.io/spring-data-rest/ "Spring Data Rest") 

## Jenkins 2 support with jenkins file

Jenkins 2 automatic multibranch plugin mode with JenkinsFile file in main directory. More interesting information about new Jenkins 2 Pipeline script configuration at:

-  [DZONE refcard jenkins pipeline](https://dzone.com/refcardz/continuous-delivery-with-jenkins-workflow "DZONE refcard jenkins pipeline")
-  [Github examples](https://github.com/jenkinsci/pipeline-examples "Github examples")  

Docker integration in feature  branch called: docker_container_jenkins

-  [Docker container feature branch](https://github.com/cristianprofile/spring-boot-mvc-complete-example/blob/feature/docker_container_jenkins/Jenkinsfile "Run IC in a Docker container")  

![Pipeline plugin](/images/git-flow.png?raw=true "Pipeline plugin")
